Lecture 08 (3/21/22)
=========
Before class:
-------------------
Prior to class, I have watched the week eight lecture playlist on youtube as well
as read the blog posts linked on the course site. I have also looked at the HTTP
exercise and SMTP exercise on the course site.

I have completed the weekly questionnaire as well as HW3. I found the concept of
analyzing traffic from my own DNS server to be very interesting. I was able to
visualize how many different servers are needed to process a single request, as
well as now have a better understanding of how the different root servers work
together to provide the answer needed.

Unrelated to this week's content, but something I found interesting. A few weeks
ago in class (I believe lecture 4) we had discussed the concept of bad packages,
and how it is possible to insert malware into a system or break dependencies by
maliciously changing a package. Earlier this week, a popular Node.js package called
`node-ipc` was updated by its maintainer to include protestware. The package implemented
a new module called `peacenotwar` as a protest against the war happening between Ukraine
and Russia. For most people, running this package will create a file on your desktop
talking about how war is bad, but if the computer/server has an IP address located in
Russia or Belarus, the package will overwrite all files on the disk with heart emoticons
(♥). This has been labeled as CVE-2022-23812, and has a 9.8/10 on a severity scale
https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JS-NODEIPC-2426370. I believe that this touches
on multiple topics we have discussed so far this semester. The first being package
management; where in a case like this a sysadmin could manually tell systems to not
accept newer versions of this package to ensure the safety of their systems. The
second topic is IP addresses. As we discussed, while IP addresses are distributed
geographically, they may not always be used where they are meant to be. For example,
in the traceroute examples from HW2, some traffic was being sent far out of the way
on the way to the destination, likely due to an address being used where it should
not be. In this situation, there would be no way to know if a system with a Russian
IP address is actually located in the country, or if it is either a mismatched IP
location or a user using a VPN.

After class:
-------------------
The first request to the DNS server is usally for an A record (followed by an AAAA
record request). Then the returns a CNAME, as well as the IP address (A and or AAAA)
for that record.

The DNS server has the root servers hard coded. The server will ask a root server for
the information about the TLD and will be returned a NS record as well as A/AAAA records
for that name server. Next, the server asks that new server for information about the next
level up, and will get back name servers with IP addresses. This repeats until we eventually
reach the final level of the domain. The DNS server will cache all of these, making requests
to future domains on the same base domain quicker.

In a HTTP header, `Pragma: no-cache` means to not look at cache.

I found the in class example regarding the fake Stevens login page to be very interesting.
Prior, I have done a similar exercise in a class, however instead of inspecting the packets,
I used PHP to take the input and save it to a log file. By using packet inspecting, I imagine
attacks like this would be harder to detect, as there would be no additional scripts running
on the page that the user (or more specifically their browsers) can detect.