For the 8 provided IP addresses, I ran traceroute on a Fedora
instance. The raw results are located in the ./raw/part3
directory, in files named after each of the IP addresses.
For the visualization, I used the provided link on the
assignment page: https://stefansundin.github.io/traceroute-mapper/

These visualizations seem to only have a few points on
the map, as I believe that IP addresses which are located
near eachother (or in the same datacenter) are lumped together.


155.246.56.11:
On the map, the the request orginates from Virginia, and
then connects to a location in NYC before being forwared
to Seattle, Washington. After the connection on the West
coast, the connection routes back to the East coast to
Newark, NJ and then back to NYC. Eventually, the connection
gets to NJEdge, which can then finally deliver the connection
to the final IP address (which in this case is Stevens).
For this connection, it goes through 26 systems.


128.171.235.62:
As with the first IP address, the connection orginates from
the AWS datacenter in Virginia, however instead of connecting
to NYC, a connection is made to Ann Arbor, MI and then finally
Honolulu, HI. The IP address is owned by the University of Hawaii,
so this end point make logical sense. What does not make sense to
me is that there is no apprent node that is between Ann Arbor and
Honolulu, as I assumed that there would be a peering point at the
West coast connecting the mainland US to HI.
For this connection, it goes through 20 systems.


190.64.134.53:
This is the first address to connect outside of the US. Like the above,
the connection orginates from Virginia, and then to São Paulo,
Brazil, and then back to the US in Miami, FL. The connection
then to Montevideo in Uruguay. The IP address is owned by
Cliente Antel Uruguay, which is the a state owned telecommunications
company.
For this connection, it goes through 17 systems.


2001:608:0:dff::2:
As this is the same instance as the prior 3 examples, the
map visualization does not show the connection orginating
from Virginia, but rather the first location on the map
is Seattle, WA. The connection appears to jump directly
to Darmstadt in Germany. I do not believe there is a
direct connection between the US West coast and mainland
Europe, as it would not make sense to run a cable that
long. I will assume that the connection does orginate
from the AWS datacenter in Virginia, and before leaving
the US it will reach a peering location on the East
coast before going through one of the many under sea
cables to the West coast of Europe. Once in Germany,
the final destination is Munich, as the address is
owned by SpaceNet AG, a company located in Munich
Germany.
For this connection, it goes through 14 systems.


196.10.52.57:
This visualization once again orginates from Virginia,
and then connects to NYC. From there, it goes accross
an under sea cable to London in the United Kingdom.
The visualization appears to then directly connect to
Alberton in South Africa, however just like the previous
example, I believe that the map is missing a peering
location between the continents of Europe and Africa,
as well as between the many nations of Africa. The
IP address is owned by Ispa SA, which is owned by
The Internet Service Providers' Association of
South Africa, so this final destination makes sense.
For this connection, it goes through 17 systems.

Something unrelated but interesting I learned when
looking this up: the TDL for South Africa is .za,
and not .sa like I was expecting. While .sa being
assigned to Saudi Arabia makes sense assuming it
claimed the TDL first, it appears that South Africa
was assigned .za in 1990, while Saudi Arabia was
assigned .sa in 1994.


2606:4700:f1::123:
Just as with the 4th IP address, this is also and
IPv6 address. And just as with the 4th address, the
map shows the connection orginating from Seattle, WA,
before directly jumping to Atlanta, GA. The IP address
is owned by CloudFlare, who owns a datacenter in
Atlanta, GA. There is definitely missing nodes on this
map, missing peering locations as well as the server's
physical location in Virginia.
For this connection, it goes through 13 systems.


144.76.76.107:
This visualization once again orginates from Virginia,
but visually skips any peering location connecting the
East coast and Europe. The connection jumps to Frankfurt
in Germany, then to Falkenstein, and finally to
Gunzenhausen in Germany. This IP address is owned by
Hetzner Online AG, which is a company with a datacenter
in Gunzenhausen.
For this connection, it goes through 17 systems.

211.233.84.186:
For this final traceroute, the connecting begins in
Virginia, then Washington, back to Virginia, and then
directly to Seoul in South Korea. This map again appears
to miss some peering nodes on the US West coast and
East coast of Asia. This final IP address is owned by
LG Dacom Corporation, an internet service provider
servicing Seoul in South Korea.
For this connection, it goes through 20 systems.


Notes:
- For the issue with IPv6 traffic orginating from
  Seattle, as well as some IPv4 traffic jumping to
  Seattle for seemingly no reason, I believe the
  best way to explain this is perhaps the geolocation
  associated with some IP addresses are not accurate.
  When searching for the instance's IPv6 address on
  iplocation.net, the results for it's geolocation
  is in Virginia for some of the data providers,
  and in Washington for some of the other data
  providers. Thus, it is possible that the weird
  behavior was simply just an incorrect geolocation
  for the IP address due to outdated databases.

- Major peering points that I noticed in this exercise
  include one in NYC, NJEdge as well as supposedly in
  Seattle, WA. The map on the provided visualization
  link displays connections supposedly connecting over
  extreamly long distances and between nations without
  any peering locations. I will make the assumption there
  is a peering location at the coast of each continent
  when a connection is made over seas, as well as
  possibly between nations or parts of large nations.

- Each of the connections are routed throug many ASes,
  however it is hard to visualize as the map condeses
  near points and seemingly skips peering loations.
  The traceroute output counts how many hops that each
  connection makes, and those have been noted under each
  entry in this file.
  